.TH QRANDOM "8" "2022-05-16" "Quantis USB RNG" "System Commands"

.SH NAME
qrandom \- Quantis hardware random number generator utility

.SH SYNOPSYS
.B qrandom
.B [ \-b \fInbytes\fP ]
.B [ \-n \fIn\fP ]
.B [ \-o \fIfile\fP ]
.B [ \-s ]
.B [ \-U ]
.B [ \-p ]
.B [ \-m ]
.B [ \-u ]
.B [ \-i \fIlower,upper\fP ]
.B [ \-d ]
.B [ \-c \fItype\fP ]
.B [ \-l ]
.B [ \-h ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program reads random bytes from a Quantis USB device.

.TP
.B \-b \fInbytes\fR
specify buffer size for random bytes.

.TP
.B \-n \fIn\fR
how many buffers of random bytes to obtain or
the number of repetitions. The default is one.

.TP
.B \-o \fIfile\fR
is the name of the output file to use.
Use minus for standard output.
Works only with bytes.

.TP
.B \-s
put space delimiter between printed bytes.

.TP
.B \-U
print bytes to in uppercase hex format.

.TP
.B \-p
print bytes to standard output in hex format.

.TP
.B \-m
mix bytes to the entropy pool via trng.
This is actually disabled for the time being.

.TP
.B \-u
unbuffered indirect reads, read one packet for every item.
Then picks one randomly from the packet.

.TP
.B \-i \fIlower,upper\fR
print integer numbers between lower and upper range including range.

.TP
.B \-d
print double floating numbers between 0 and 1.

.TP
.B \-c \fItype\fR
print random character strings of length \fInbytes\fR.
The
.B \fItype\fR
can be:

.IP
\fB1\fR for printable ASCII characters.
.IP
\fB2\fR for ASCII letters (7-bit).
.IP
\fB3\fR for numbers.
.IP
\fB4\fR to print syllables. These are easier to pronounce
and type but contain less entropy for the same length.
.IP
\fB5\fR print hex bytes.
.IP
\fB6\fR print uppercase hex bytes.
.IP
\fB7\fR just binary bytes as they are.
.br
The default type is 5.

.TP
.B \-l
list information about the connected device.
Only for root.

.TP
.B \-h
print this help.

.TP
.br
Note that the order of options on the command line is significant.
Some of the options are interpreted as actions, executed in the order
specified. So for example buffer size and number of buffer should be
specified before using -p to print.

.RE

