.TH LOGIN_SEQ "8" "2022-07-14" "Sequence login style" "System Commands"

.SH NAME
login_seq \- Login using a sequence of login styles.

.SH SYNOPSYS
.B login_seq
.B [ \-d ]
.B [ \-s \fIservice\fP ]
.B \fIuser\fP
.B [ \fIclass\fP ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility applies a sequence of login styles to authenticate the
\fIuser\fR accordingly to \fIlogin.conf\fR termcap style entries.
All items defined in the sequence should succeed for a successful
authentication. So this implements an AND conjunction instead of the
default OR.

.TP
.B \-d
debug option to call the program outside from the login framework
for command line testing.

.TP
.B \-s \fIservice\fR
specifies which protocol to use with the invoking program.
Only the \fIlogin\fR protocol is allowed.
The program will prompt the user for a password and report back to the
invoking program whether or not the authentication was successful.

.TP
.B \fIuser\fR
is the login name of the user to be authenticated.

.TP
Config file \fBlogin.conf\fR should have similar entries like shown below:
.EX

sequence:\\
    :auth=seq,passwd:\\
    :styles=passwd,passwd:\\
    :prompts=Enter password\\072 ,Enter password\\072 :

# Default styles.
auth-seq-defaults:\\
    :auth-seq=seq:

# User with sequence specified above.
user:\\
    :path=/usr/bin /bin /usr/sbin /sbin /usr/X11R6/bin /usr/local/bin /usr/local/sbin:\\
    :umask=022:\\
    :datasize-max=1024M:\\
    :datasize-cur=1024M:\\
    :maxproc-max=256:\\
    :maxproc-cur=128:\\
    :openfiles-max=1024:\\
    :openfiles-cur=512:\\
    :stacksize-cur=4M:\\
    :localcipher=blowfish,a:\\
    :auth=seq:
.EE

.PP
In the \fIsequence\fR stanza we define the class \fIsequence\fR, which then in turn
can be referred in the \fB/etc/master.passd\fR file as the field after the primary group
field for the user. Extra capabilities can also be defined here.
The termcap like string \fIauth\fR defines the allowed authentication styles.
The \fIstyles\fR string defines the sequence of authentication styles separated by commas.
The \fIprompts\fR string has the corresponding prompt items. Note that to include a
colon in a termcap string you have to use \\072 .

All authentication styles will be tried in sequence and all should succeed.

The next stanza defines the default styles which can be referred with a
\fB:tc=auth-seq-defaults:\fR item.

The user definition then can have an item \fB:auth=seq:\fR.

Make sure that you ran the database generator for login.conf
when there is a db file so it is in use.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR su (1),
.BR login.conf (5),
.BR ftpd (8)
 
