.TH QUSB "8" "2022-05-16" "Quantis USB RNG tester" "System Commands"

.SH NAME
qusb \- Quantis USB hardware random number generator utility

.SH SYNOPSYS
.B qusb
.B [ \-h ]
.B [ \-v ]
.B [ \-u ]
.B [ \-d \fIlevel\fP ]
.B [ \-b \fIsize\fP ]
.B [ \-l \fIlength\fP ]
.B [ \-n \fIn\fP ]
.B \fBcmd...\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is a test program for the Quantis USB device.
It is a hardware true random number generator made by id Quantique.
The program tests various library functions. 

.TP
.B \-h
Print this help.

.TP
.B \-v
Prints the version of the library.

.TP
.B \-u
Will use unbuffered indirect reads when possible.
This involves reading one packet for every item.

.TP
.B \-d \fIlevel\fR
Debug level, 0 if not specified.

.TP
.B \-b \fInbytes\fR
Specify the buffer size in bytes for the random data.

.TP
.B \-l \fIlength\fR
Specify the line length in characters for printing.

.TP
.B \-n \fIn\fR
Repeat the operation \fIn\fR times.
The default is one.

.TP
.B \fIcmd...\fR
The command to execute. It is one of the followings.

.TP
.B enumerate
Open device and close.

.TP
.B open
Open the device. The next word will specify the operation
to execute.

.TP
.B readbulk
Read one bulk packet.

.TP
.B read
Read buffer with the given length.

.TP
.B byte
Read byte.

.TP
.B word
Read word.

.TP
.B int
Read int.

.TP
.B scaledint \fImin\fR \fImax\fR
Read scaled int between \fImin\fR and \fImax\fR.

.TP
.B scaleddouble \fImin\fR \fImax\fR
Read scaled double floating.

.TP
.B signal
Test signal handling function.

.TP
.B print
Print buffer in hex.

.TP
.B report
Report device status.

.TP
.B probe
Report if device is present.

.TP
.B close
Close the device.

.RE

